---------------------------------------------- Deck Checklist ---------------------------------------

Horizontal logic test:
    Is the storyline clear?
    Does each header follow logically from the previous header?
    Are the transitions between headers clear?
    Are the significant conclusions/recommendations represented in headers (rather than in bullet points)
    Are headers ideas (rather than topics)?
    Is that a story that will “move” your audience?
Remember to provide contexting clues:
    Have you provided an introduction/overview/agenda?
    Are there trackers that make the agenda explicit?
    Does the document fulfill the expectations the that the ntroduction/overview/agenda creates?
Verify the introduction:
    Introductions have a situational context, a single, specific problem, and a single, specific question
    Does the question drive the entire report?
    Is the question answered – completely?
    Does the answer solve the problem?
    Is the relations of the problem to the context explicit?

-------------------------------------------- Slide Checklist ---------------------------------------------

Test the vertical logic

    Does the header summarize the dots/dashes/exhibits?
    Do all the dots/dashes/exhibits support the header?
    Are the dots/dashes parallel in both logic and language?
    Is the order explicit? Is there a better way to order the dots?
    Is the argument strategy coherent?
Check your exhibits

    Does the graphic (bars, circles, lines etc.) immediately relay and visibly support the page's key message?
    Can you easily explain your exhibit/graphic?
    Does your exhibit have a title, labels, a legend, and a source?
    Do you avoid visual clutter and eliminate excess data?
    Do you avoid distortion (in scales, graphics, bars, axis, length etc.)
Copy-edit for writing style

    Do you use active verbs and avoid passive voice?
    Do you use grammatical subordination which reflects your logic?
    Is your language/word choice appropriate for your audience?
    Do you clutter your sentences with too many prepositions, nominalizations and unnecessary words?
    Have you selected one style for the entire document: key word, telegraph, or full sentences
Checklist for texts
    No spelling mistakes / typos
    Proper grammar
    Active voice
    Bullets have parallel structure
    Order of bullets logical
    Numbers / countries mentioned in header match those on page
    Not too wordy but enough context to stand-alone
Checklist for charts
    Chart title included and correct – all details like units included in 2nd unbolded line of title
    Order that data presented is sensible
    No redundant information causing clutter (e.g., repeating 000 for every label)
    All points labeled on chart (preferred) or there is legend (if direct labels not possible)
    Axes labeled
    Data label text presented horizontally (if no room, consider horizontal bar chart)
    Colors in charts sensible
    Highlighted colors to draw audience attention to right place
    Consistent with other pages (e.g., Country A always Blue 3)
    Consistent with Strategy& format
Scale break “railroad tracks” used if needed
Checklist for sources and footnotes
    Are they included and up-to-date
    Do footnote #’s match with references in page
    Have you not buried key information in footnote – consider putting key info in chart title or cloud

And when all that is done the last question remains: will the audience of the presentation be happy with the slides you have constructed? Provided the answer is yes, you are ready to submit them!


